specs/001-prf-po-workflow/data-model.md, before:

# Data Model: PRF/PO Workflow

**Feature**: 001-prf-po-workflow
**Date**: 2026-01-19

## Overview

This document defines the data model changes required for the PRF/PO workflow feature. Changes are additive to the existing schema unless marked as MODIFY.

---

## 1. Enum Changes

### UserRole (MODIFY)

Add new role for procurement specialists.

```prisma
enum UserRole {
  OPERATOR
  SUPERVISOR
  ADMIN
  PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST  // NEW
}
```

### PRFType (NEW)

Classification of purchase requisitions.

```prisma
enum PRFType {
  URGENT   // High priority, expedited processing
  DPA      // Direct Purchase Approval
  NORMAL   // Standard processing
}
```

### PRFCategory (NEW)

Category of items being requested.

```prisma
enum PRFCategory {
  MATERIAL
  CONSUMABLES
  SPARE_PARTS
  ASSET
  SERVICES
}
```

### PRFStatus (MODIFY)

Add CLOSED status for completed PRFs.

```prisma
enum PRFStatus {
  DRAFT
  PENDING
  APPROVED
  REJECTED
  CLOSED    // NEW - auto-set when linked PO is closed
}
```

---

## 2. Entity Changes

### Supplier (MODIFY)

Add email addresses and contact details.

```prisma
model Supplier {
  id              String     @id @default(uuid()) @db.Uuid
  code            String     @unique @db.VarChar(50)
  name            String     @db.VarChar(200)
  contact         String?
  emails          String[]   @default([])  // NEW: Multiple email addresses
  phone           String?    @db.VarChar(50)  // NEW
  mobile          String?    @db.VarChar(50)  // NEW
  vat_reg_no      String?    @db.VarChar(50)  // NEW
  address         String?                      // NEW
  is_active       Boolean    @default(true)
  created_at      DateTime   @default(now()) @db.Timestamptz(6)
  deliveries      Delivery[]
  purchase_orders PO[]

  @@index([is_active])
  @@map("suppliers")
}
```

**New Fields:**
| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| emails | String[] | Array of email addresses for PO notifications |
| phone | String? | Office phone number |
| mobile | String? | Mobile phone number |
| vat_reg_no | String? | VAT registration number (Saudi Arabia) |
| address | String? | Full mailing address |

---

### PRF (MODIFY)

Extend with additional fields from the PRF template.

```prisma
model PRF {
  id                      String       @id @default(uuid()) @db.Uuid
  prf_no                  String       @unique @db.VarChar(50)
  period_id               String       @db.Uuid
  location_id             String       @db.Uuid
  project_name            String?      @db.VarChar(200)         // NEW
  prf_type                PRFType      @default(NORMAL)         // NEW
  category                PRFCategory  @default(MATERIAL)       // NEW
  expected_delivery_date  DateTime?    @db.Date                 // NEW
  is_reimbursable         Boolean      @default(false)          // NEW
  status                  PRFStatus    @default(DRAFT)
  requested_by            String       @db.Uuid
  approved_by             String?      @db.Uuid
  request_date            DateTime     @db.Date
  approval_date           DateTime?    @db.Date
  rejection_reason        String?                                // NEW
  total_value             Decimal      @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // NEW
  contact_person_name     String?      @db.VarChar(100)         // NEW
  contact_person_phone    String?      @db.VarChar(50)          // NEW
  receiver_name           String?      @db.VarChar(100)         // NEW
  receiver_phone          String?      @db.VarChar(50)          // NEW
  notes                   String?
  created_at              DateTime     @default(now()) @db.Timestamptz(6)
  updated_at              DateTime     @updatedAt @db.Timestamptz(6)
  lines                   PRFLine[]                              // NEW relation
  purchase_orders         PO[]
  approver                User?        @relation("PRFApprover", fields: [approved_by], references: [id])
  location                Location     @relation(fields: [location_id], references: [id])
  period                  Period       @relation(fields: [period_id], references: [id])
  requester               User         @relation("PRFRequester", fields: [requested_by], references: [id])

  @@index([period_id])
  @@index([location_id])
  @@index([status])
  @@index([request_date])
  @@index([prf_type])      // NEW
  @@index([category])      // NEW
  @@map("prfs")
}
```

**New Fields:**
| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| project_name | String? | Associated project name |
| prf_type | PRFType | URGENT, DPA, or NORMAL |
| category | PRFCategory | Material type classification |
| expected_delivery_date | DateTime? | Requested delivery date |
| is_reimbursable | Boolean | Whether cost is reimbursable |
| rejection_reason | String? | Mandatory reason when rejected |
| total_value | Decimal | Sum of all line values |
| contact_person_name | String? | Contact for delivery coordination |
| contact_person_phone | String? | Contact phone number |
| receiver_name | String? | Authorized receiver name |
| receiver_phone | String? | Receiver phone number |

---

### PRFLine (NEW)

Individual line items on a PRF.

```prisma
model PRFLine {
  id               String   @id @default(uuid()) @db.Uuid
  prf_id           String   @db.Uuid
  item_id          String?  @db.Uuid          // Optional - can be custom item
  item_description String   @db.VarChar(500)   // Custom description
  cost_code        String?  @db.VarChar(50)    // Cost Code / SPR
  stock_qty        Decimal? @db.Decimal(15, 4) // Current stock qty (reference)
  unit             Unit
  required_qty     Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 4)
  estimated_price  Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 4)
  line_value       Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 2) // required_qty × estimated_price
  notes            String?
  prf              PRF      @relation(fields: [prf_id], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)
  item             Item?    @relation(fields: [item_id], references: [id])

  @@index([prf_id])
  @@index([item_id])
  @@map("prf_lines")
}
```

**Fields:**
| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| prf_id | UUID | Yes | Parent PRF reference |
| item_id | UUID | No | Optional link to Item master |
| item_description | String | Yes | Free-text description |
| cost_code | String | No | Cost center / SPR code |
| stock_qty | Decimal | No | Reference stock quantity |
| unit | Unit | Yes | Unit of measure |
| required_qty | Decimal | Yes | Quantity requested |
| estimated_price | Decimal | Yes | Estimated unit price |
| line_value | Decimal | Yes | Calculated: qty × price |
| notes | String | No | Line-specific notes |

**Validation Rules:**

- `required_qty > 0`
- `estimated_price >= 0`
- `line_value = required_qty × estimated_price`

---

### PO (MODIFY)

Extend with detailed pricing and terms fields.

```prisma
model PO {
  id                    String     @id @default(uuid()) @db.Uuid
  po_no                 String     @unique @db.VarChar(50)
  prf_id                String?    @db.Uuid
  supplier_id           String     @db.Uuid
  quotation_ref         String?    @db.VarChar(100)  // NEW
  ship_to_location_id   String?    @db.Uuid          // NEW
  ship_to_contact       String?    @db.VarChar(100)  // NEW
  ship_to_phone         String?    @db.VarChar(50)   // NEW
  status                POStatus   @default(OPEN)
  total_before_discount Decimal    @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // NEW
  total_discount        Decimal    @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // NEW
  total_after_discount  Decimal    @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // NEW
  total_vat             Decimal    @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // NEW
  total_amount          Decimal    @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // Final total
  payment_terms         String?    @db.VarChar(200)  // NEW
  delivery_terms        String?    @db.VarChar(200)  // NEW
  duration_days         Int?                          // NEW
  terms_conditions      String?                       // NEW
  notes                 String?
  created_by            String     @db.Uuid          // NEW
  created_at            DateTime   @default(now()) @db.Timestamptz(6)
  updated_at            DateTime   @updatedAt @db.Timestamptz(6)
  lines                 POLine[]                      // NEW relation
  deliveries            Delivery[]
  prf                   PRF?       @relation(fields: [prf_id], references: [id])
  supplier              Supplier   @relation(fields: [supplier_id], references: [id])
  ship_to_location      Location?  @relation("POShipTo", fields: [ship_to_location_id], references: [id])
  creator               User       @relation("POCreator", fields: [created_by], references: [id])

  @@index([prf_id])
  @@index([supplier_id])
  @@index([status])
  @@index([created_by])    // NEW
  @@map("purchase_orders")
}
```

**New Fields:**
| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| quotation_ref | String? | Supplier's quotation reference |
| ship_to_location_id | UUID? | Delivery destination location |
| ship_to_contact | String? | Contact name at delivery site |
| ship_to_phone | String? | Contact phone at delivery site |
| total_before_discount | Decimal | Sum of line totals before discount |
| total_discount | Decimal | Total discount amount |
| total_after_discount | Decimal | Amount after discount |
| total_vat | Decimal | Total VAT amount |
| payment_terms | String? | Payment terms text |
| delivery_terms | String? | Delivery terms text |
| duration_days | Int? | Contract duration in days |
| terms_conditions | String? | Additional terms |
| created_by | UUID | User who created the PO |

---

### POLine (NEW)

Individual line items on a PO with VAT calculations.

```prisma
model POLine {
  id                 String   @id @default(uuid()) @db.Uuid
  po_id              String   @db.Uuid
  item_id            String?  @db.Uuid
  item_code          String?  @db.VarChar(50)
  item_description   String   @db.VarChar(500)
  quantity           Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 4)
  unit               Unit
  unit_price         Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 4)
  discount_percent   Decimal  @default(0) @db.Decimal(5, 2)
  total_before_vat   Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 2)
  vat_percent        Decimal  @default(15) @db.Decimal(5, 2)  // Saudi VAT 15%
  vat_amount         Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 2)
  total_after_vat    Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 2)
  notes              String?
  po                 PO       @relation(fields: [po_id], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)
  item               Item?    @relation(fields: [item_id], references: [id])

  @@index([po_id])
  @@index([item_id])
  @@map("po_lines")
}
```

**Fields:**
| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| po_id | UUID | Yes | Parent PO reference |
| item_id | UUID | No | Optional link to Item master |
| item_code | String | No | Item code (denormalized) |
| item_description | String | Yes | Item description |
| quantity | Decimal | Yes | Order quantity |
| unit | Unit | Yes | Unit of measure |
| unit_price | Decimal | Yes | Unit price |
| discount_percent | Decimal | No | Line discount (0-100%) |
| total_before_vat | Decimal | Yes | qty × price × (1 - discount%) |
| vat_percent | Decimal | No | VAT rate (default 15%) |
| vat_amount | Decimal | Yes | Calculated VAT amount |
| total_after_vat | Decimal | Yes | Line total including VAT |
| notes | String | No | Line-specific notes |

**Validation Rules:**

- `quantity > 0`
- `unit_price >= 0`
- `0 <= discount_percent <= 100`
- `0 <= vat_percent <= 100`
- `total_before_vat = quantity × unit_price × (1 - discount_percent / 100)`
- `vat_amount = total_before_vat × vat_percent / 100`
- `total_after_vat = total_before_vat + vat_amount`

---

### Delivery (MODIFY)

Change po_id from optional to required.

```prisma
model Delivery {
  // ... existing fields ...
  po_id          String         @db.Uuid  // CHANGED: String? → String (REQUIRED)
  // ... rest unchanged ...
}
```

**Migration Note:**

- Existing deliveries with `po_id = NULL` must be handled
- Option: Create a "Legacy" PO or allow NULL for existing records only
- Recommendation: Allow NULL for existing, require for new (validation in API layer)

---

### Location (MODIFY)

Add relation for PO ship-to location.

```prisma
model Location {
  // ... existing fields ...
  ship_to_pos       PO[]           @relation("POShipTo")  // NEW
  // ... rest unchanged ...
}
```

---

### User (MODIFY)

Add relation for PO creator.

```prisma
model User {
  // ... existing fields ...
  created_pos       PO[]           @relation("POCreator")  // NEW
  // ... rest unchanged ...
}
```

---

### Item (MODIFY)

Add relations for PRF and PO lines.

```prisma
model Item {
  // ... existing fields ...
  prf_lines      PRFLine[]   // NEW
  po_lines       POLine[]    // NEW
  // ... rest unchanged ...
}
```

---

## 3. Entity Relationships

```
┌─────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
│    User     │     │   Location  │     │   Period    │
└──────┬──────┘     └──────┬──────┘     └──────┬──────┘
       │                   │                   │
       │ requested_by      │ location_id       │ period_id
       │ approved_by       │                   │
       ▼                   ▼                   ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         PRF                          │
│  (1:1 with PO, 1:N with PRFLine)                    │
└──────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────┘
                           │
              ┌────────────┴────────────┐
              │                         │
              ▼                         ▼
       ┌─────────────┐          ┌─────────────┐
       │   PRFLine   │          │     PO      │
       │   (1:N)     │          │   (1:1)     │
       └─────────────┘          └──────┬──────┘
                                       │
                          ┌────────────┴────────────┐
                          │                         │
                          ▼                         ▼
                   ┌─────────────┐          ┌─────────────┐
                   │   POLine    │          │  Delivery   │
                   │   (1:N)     │          │   (1:N)     │
                   └─────────────┘          └─────────────┘
```

---

## 4. State Transitions

### PRF Status Flow

```
DRAFT ──[submit]──> PENDING ──[approve]──> APPROVED ──[po_closed]──> CLOSED
                        │
                        └──[reject]──> REJECTED
```

| Transition         | Trigger | Conditions                                |
| ------------------ | ------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| DRAFT → PENDING    | Submit  | Has at least 1 line item                  |
| PENDING → APPROVED | Approve | User is Supervisor/Admin                  |
| PENDING → REJECTED | Reject  | User is Supervisor/Admin, reason provided |
| APPROVED → CLOSED  | Auto    | When linked PO is closed                  |

### PO Status Flow

```
OPEN ──[close]──> CLOSED
```

| Transition    | Trigger | Conditions                           |
| ------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------ |
| OPEN → CLOSED | Close   | User is Procurement Specialist/Admin |

---

## 5. TypeScript Interfaces

Add to `shared/types/database.ts`:

```typescript
// New Enums
export type PRFType = "URGENT" | "DPA" | "NORMAL";
export type PRFCategory = "MATERIAL" | "CONSUMABLES" | "SPARE_PARTS" | "ASSET" | "SERVICES";

// Updated UserRole
export type UserRole = "OPERATOR" | "SUPERVISOR" | "ADMIN" | "PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST";

// PRFLine Interface
export interface PRFLine {
  id: string;
  prf_id: string;
  item_id: string | null;
  item_description: string;
  cost_code: string | null;
  stock_qty: DecimalValue | null;
  unit: Unit;
  required_qty: DecimalValue;
  estimated_price: DecimalValue;
  line_value: DecimalValue;
  notes: string | null;
}

// PRF Interface (extended)
export interface PRF {
  id: string;
  prf_no: string;
  period_id: string;
  location_id: string;
  project_name: string | null;
  prf_type: PRFType;
  category: PRFCategory;
  expected_delivery_date: Date | string | null;
  is_reimbursable: boolean;
  status: PRFStatus;
  requested_by: string;
  approved_by: string | null;
  request_date: Date | string;
  approval_date: Date | string | null;
  rejection_reason: string | null;
  total_value: DecimalValue;
  contact_person_name: string | null;
  contact_person_phone: string | null;
  receiver_name: string | null;
  receiver_phone: string | null;
  notes: string | null;
  created_at: Date | string;
  updated_at: Date | string;
}

// POLine Interface
export interface POLine {
  id: string;
  po_id: string;
  item_id: string | null;
  item_code: string | null;
  item_description: string;
  quantity: DecimalValue;
  unit: Unit;
  unit_price: DecimalValue;
  discount_percent: DecimalValue;
  total_before_vat: DecimalValue;
  vat_percent: DecimalValue;
  vat_amount: DecimalValue;
  total_after_vat: DecimalValue;
  notes: string | null;
}

// PO Interface (extended)
export interface PO {
  id: string;
  po_no: string;
  prf_id: string | null;
  supplier_id: string;
  quotation_ref: string | null;
  ship_to_location_id: string | null;
  ship_to_contact: string | null;
  ship_to_phone: string | null;
  status: POStatus;
  total_before_discount: DecimalValue;
  total_discount: DecimalValue;
  total_after_discount: DecimalValue;
  total_vat: DecimalValue;
  total_amount: DecimalValue;
  payment_terms: string | null;
  delivery_terms: string | null;
  duration_days: number | null;
  terms_conditions: string | null;
  notes: string | null;
  created_by: string;
  created_at: Date | string;
  updated_at: Date | string;
}

// Supplier Interface (extended)
export interface Supplier {
  id: string;
  code: string;
  name: string;
  contact: string | null;
  emails: string[];
  phone: string | null;
  mobile: string | null;
  vat_reg_no: string | null;
  address: string | null;
  is_active: boolean;
  created_at: Date | string;
}
```

---

## 6. Migration Strategy

### Phase 1: Schema Changes

1. Add new enums (PRFType, PRFCategory)
2. Modify UserRole enum (add PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST)
3. Add PRFLine model
4. Add POLine model
5. Modify Supplier model (add emails, phone, mobile, vat_reg_no, address)
6. Modify PRF model (add new fields)
7. Modify PO model (add new fields)
8. Add relations to User, Location, Item models

### Phase 2: Data Migration

1. No data migration needed (new fields have defaults or are nullable)
2. Existing deliveries with po_id = NULL remain valid (API validates new only)

### Migration Command

```bash
pnpm db:migrate dev --name add_prf_po_workflow
```

Commit message:

limit PO access to procurement specialists and disable supplier email on PO creation

specs/001-prf-po-workflow/data-model.md, after:

# Data Model: PRF/PO Workflow

**Feature**: 001-prf-po-workflow
**Date**: 2026-01-19

## Overview

This document defines the data model changes required for the PRF/PO workflow feature. Changes are additive to the existing schema unless marked as MODIFY.

---

## 1. Enum Changes

### UserRole (MODIFY)

Add new role for procurement specialists.

```prisma
enum UserRole {
  OPERATOR
  SUPERVISOR
  ADMIN
  PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST  // NEW
}
```

### PRFType (NEW)

Classification of purchase requisitions.

```prisma
enum PRFType {
  URGENT   // High priority, expedited processing
  DPA      // Direct Purchase Approval
  NORMAL   // Standard processing
}
```

### PRFCategory (NEW)

Category of items being requested.

```prisma
enum PRFCategory {
  MATERIAL
  CONSUMABLES
  SPARE_PARTS
  ASSET
  SERVICES
}
```

### PRFStatus (MODIFY)

Add CLOSED status for completed PRFs.

```prisma
enum PRFStatus {
  DRAFT
  PENDING
  APPROVED
  REJECTED
  CLOSED    // NEW - auto-set when linked PO is closed
}
```

---

## 2. Entity Changes

### Supplier (MODIFY)

Add email addresses and contact details.

```prisma
model Supplier {
  id              String     @id @default(uuid()) @db.Uuid
  code            String     @unique @db.VarChar(50)
  name            String     @db.VarChar(200)
  contact         String?
  emails          String[]   @default([])  // NEW: Multiple email addresses
  phone           String?    @db.VarChar(50)  // NEW
  mobile          String?    @db.VarChar(50)  // NEW
  vat_reg_no      String?    @db.VarChar(50)  // NEW
  address         String?                      // NEW
  is_active       Boolean    @default(true)
  created_at      DateTime   @default(now()) @db.Timestamptz(6)
  deliveries      Delivery[]
  purchase_orders PO[]

  @@index([is_active])
  @@map("suppliers")
}
```

**New Fields:**
| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| emails | String[] | Array of email addresses for supplier contact (stored for reference, not used for automatic notifications) |
| phone | String? | Office phone number |
| mobile | String? | Mobile phone number |
| vat_reg_no | String? | VAT registration number (Saudi Arabia) |
| address | String? | Full mailing address |

---

### PRF (MODIFY)

Extend with additional fields from the PRF template.

```prisma
model PRF {
  id                      String       @id @default(uuid()) @db.Uuid
  prf_no                  String       @unique @db.VarChar(50)
  period_id               String       @db.Uuid
  location_id             String       @db.Uuid
  project_name            String?      @db.VarChar(200)         // NEW
  prf_type                PRFType      @default(NORMAL)         // NEW
  category                PRFCategory  @default(MATERIAL)       // NEW
  expected_delivery_date  DateTime?    @db.Date                 // NEW
  is_reimbursable         Boolean      @default(false)          // NEW
  status                  PRFStatus    @default(DRAFT)
  requested_by            String       @db.Uuid
  approved_by             String?      @db.Uuid
  request_date            DateTime     @db.Date
  approval_date           DateTime?    @db.Date
  rejection_reason        String?                                // NEW
  total_value             Decimal      @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // NEW
  contact_person_name     String?      @db.VarChar(100)         // NEW
  contact_person_phone    String?      @db.VarChar(50)          // NEW
  receiver_name           String?      @db.VarChar(100)         // NEW
  receiver_phone          String?      @db.VarChar(50)          // NEW
  notes                   String?
  created_at              DateTime     @default(now()) @db.Timestamptz(6)
  updated_at              DateTime     @updatedAt @db.Timestamptz(6)
  lines                   PRFLine[]                              // NEW relation
  purchase_orders         PO[]
  approver                User?        @relation("PRFApprover", fields: [approved_by], references: [id])
  location                Location     @relation(fields: [location_id], references: [id])
  period                  Period       @relation(fields: [period_id], references: [id])
  requester               User         @relation("PRFRequester", fields: [requested_by], references: [id])

  @@index([period_id])
  @@index([location_id])
  @@index([status])
  @@index([request_date])
  @@index([prf_type])      // NEW
  @@index([category])      // NEW
  @@map("prfs")
}
```

**New Fields:**
| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| project_name | String? | Associated project name |
| prf_type | PRFType | URGENT, DPA, or NORMAL |
| category | PRFCategory | Material type classification |
| expected_delivery_date | DateTime? | Requested delivery date |
| is_reimbursable | Boolean | Whether cost is reimbursable |
| rejection_reason | String? | Mandatory reason when rejected |
| total_value | Decimal | Sum of all line values |
| contact_person_name | String? | Contact for delivery coordination |
| contact_person_phone | String? | Contact phone number |
| receiver_name | String? | Authorized receiver name |
| receiver_phone | String? | Receiver phone number |

---

### PRFLine (NEW)

Individual line items on a PRF.

```prisma
model PRFLine {
  id               String   @id @default(uuid()) @db.Uuid
  prf_id           String   @db.Uuid
  item_id          String?  @db.Uuid          // Optional - can be custom item
  item_description String   @db.VarChar(500)   // Custom description
  cost_code        String?  @db.VarChar(50)    // Cost Code / SPR
  stock_qty        Decimal? @db.Decimal(15, 4) // Current stock qty (reference)
  unit             Unit
  required_qty     Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 4)
  estimated_price  Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 4)
  line_value       Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 2) // required_qty × estimated_price
  notes            String?
  prf              PRF      @relation(fields: [prf_id], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)
  item             Item?    @relation(fields: [item_id], references: [id])

  @@index([prf_id])
  @@index([item_id])
  @@map("prf_lines")
}
```

**Fields:**
| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| prf_id | UUID | Yes | Parent PRF reference |
| item_id | UUID | No | Optional link to Item master |
| item_description | String | Yes | Free-text description |
| cost_code | String | No | Cost center / SPR code |
| stock_qty | Decimal | No | Reference stock quantity |
| unit | Unit | Yes | Unit of measure |
| required_qty | Decimal | Yes | Quantity requested |
| estimated_price | Decimal | Yes | Estimated unit price |
| line_value | Decimal | Yes | Calculated: qty × price |
| notes | String | No | Line-specific notes |

**Validation Rules:**

- `required_qty > 0`
- `estimated_price >= 0`
- `line_value = required_qty × estimated_price`

---

### PO (MODIFY)

Extend with detailed pricing and terms fields.

```prisma
model PO {
  id                    String     @id @default(uuid()) @db.Uuid
  po_no                 String     @unique @db.VarChar(50)
  prf_id                String?    @db.Uuid
  supplier_id           String     @db.Uuid
  quotation_ref         String?    @db.VarChar(100)  // NEW
  ship_to_location_id   String?    @db.Uuid          // NEW
  ship_to_contact       String?    @db.VarChar(100)  // NEW
  ship_to_phone         String?    @db.VarChar(50)   // NEW
  status                POStatus   @default(OPEN)
  total_before_discount Decimal    @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // NEW
  total_discount        Decimal    @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // NEW
  total_after_discount  Decimal    @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // NEW
  total_vat             Decimal    @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // NEW
  total_amount          Decimal    @default(0) @db.Decimal(15, 2)  // Final total
  payment_terms         String?    @db.VarChar(200)  // NEW
  delivery_terms        String?    @db.VarChar(200)  // NEW
  duration_days         Int?                          // NEW
  terms_conditions      String?                       // NEW
  notes                 String?
  created_by            String     @db.Uuid          // NEW
  created_at            DateTime   @default(now()) @db.Timestamptz(6)
  updated_at            DateTime   @updatedAt @db.Timestamptz(6)
  lines                 POLine[]                      // NEW relation
  deliveries            Delivery[]
  prf                   PRF?       @relation(fields: [prf_id], references: [id])
  supplier              Supplier   @relation(fields: [supplier_id], references: [id])
  ship_to_location      Location?  @relation("POShipTo", fields: [ship_to_location_id], references: [id])
  creator               User       @relation("POCreator", fields: [created_by], references: [id])

  @@index([prf_id])
  @@index([supplier_id])
  @@index([status])
  @@index([created_by])    // NEW
  @@map("purchase_orders")
}
```

**New Fields:**
| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| quotation_ref | String? | Supplier's quotation reference |
| ship_to_location_id | UUID? | Delivery destination location |
| ship_to_contact | String? | Contact name at delivery site |
| ship_to_phone | String? | Contact phone at delivery site |
| total_before_discount | Decimal | Sum of line totals before discount |
| total_discount | Decimal | Total discount amount |
| total_after_discount | Decimal | Amount after discount |
| total_vat | Decimal | Total VAT amount |
| payment_terms | String? | Payment terms text |
| delivery_terms | String? | Delivery terms text |
| duration_days | Int? | Contract duration in days |
| terms_conditions | String? | Additional terms |
| created_by | UUID | User who created the PO |

---

### POLine (NEW)

Individual line items on a PO with VAT calculations.

```prisma
model POLine {
  id                 String   @id @default(uuid()) @db.Uuid
  po_id              String   @db.Uuid
  item_id            String?  @db.Uuid
  item_code          String?  @db.VarChar(50)
  item_description   String   @db.VarChar(500)
  quantity           Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 4)
  unit               Unit
  unit_price         Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 4)
  discount_percent   Decimal  @default(0) @db.Decimal(5, 2)
  total_before_vat   Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 2)
  vat_percent        Decimal  @default(15) @db.Decimal(5, 2)  // Saudi VAT 15%
  vat_amount         Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 2)
  total_after_vat    Decimal  @db.Decimal(15, 2)
  notes              String?
  po                 PO       @relation(fields: [po_id], references: [id], onDelete: Cascade)
  item               Item?    @relation(fields: [item_id], references: [id])

  @@index([po_id])
  @@index([item_id])
  @@map("po_lines")
}
```

**Fields:**
| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| po_id | UUID | Yes | Parent PO reference |
| item_id | UUID | No | Optional link to Item master |
| item_code | String | No | Item code (denormalized) |
| item_description | String | Yes | Item description |
| quantity | Decimal | Yes | Order quantity |
| unit | Unit | Yes | Unit of measure |
| unit_price | Decimal | Yes | Unit price |
| discount_percent | Decimal | No | Line discount (0-100%) |
| total_before_vat | Decimal | Yes | qty × price × (1 - discount%) |
| vat_percent | Decimal | No | VAT rate (default 15%) |
| vat_amount | Decimal | Yes | Calculated VAT amount |
| total_after_vat | Decimal | Yes | Line total including VAT |
| notes | String | No | Line-specific notes |

**Validation Rules:**

- `quantity > 0`
- `unit_price >= 0`
- `0 <= discount_percent <= 100`
- `0 <= vat_percent <= 100`
- `total_before_vat = quantity × unit_price × (1 - discount_percent / 100)`
- `vat_amount = total_before_vat × vat_percent / 100`
- `total_after_vat = total_before_vat + vat_amount`

---

### Delivery (MODIFY)

Change po_id from optional to required.

```prisma
model Delivery {
  // ... existing fields ...
  po_id          String         @db.Uuid  // CHANGED: String? → String (REQUIRED)
  // ... rest unchanged ...
}
```

**Migration Note:**

- Existing deliveries with `po_id = NULL` must be handled
- Option: Create a "Legacy" PO or allow NULL for existing records only
- Recommendation: Allow NULL for existing, require for new (validation in API layer)

---

### Location (MODIFY)

Add relation for PO ship-to location.

```prisma
model Location {
  // ... existing fields ...
  ship_to_pos       PO[]           @relation("POShipTo")  // NEW
  // ... rest unchanged ...
}
```

---

### User (MODIFY)

Add relation for PO creator.

```prisma
model User {
  // ... existing fields ...
  created_pos       PO[]           @relation("POCreator")  // NEW
  // ... rest unchanged ...
}
```

---

### Item (MODIFY)

Add relations for PRF and PO lines.

```prisma
model Item {
  // ... existing fields ...
  prf_lines      PRFLine[]   // NEW
  po_lines       POLine[]    // NEW
  // ... rest unchanged ...
}
```

---

## 3. Entity Relationships

```
┌─────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
│    User     │     │   Location  │     │   Period    │
└──────┬──────┘     └──────┬──────┘     └──────┬──────┘
       │                   │                   │
       │ requested_by      │ location_id       │ period_id
       │ approved_by       │                   │
       ▼                   ▼                   ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         PRF                          │
│  (1:1 with PO, 1:N with PRFLine)                    │
└──────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────┘
                           │
              ┌────────────┴────────────┐
              │                         │
              ▼                         ▼
       ┌─────────────┐          ┌─────────────┐
       │   PRFLine   │          │     PO      │
       │   (1:N)     │          │   (1:1)     │
       └─────────────┘          └──────┬──────┘
                                       │
                          ┌────────────┴────────────┐
                          │                         │
                          ▼                         ▼
                   ┌─────────────┐          ┌─────────────┐
                   │   POLine    │          │  Delivery   │
                   │   (1:N)     │          │   (1:N)     │
                   └─────────────┘          └─────────────┘
```

---

## 4. State Transitions

### PRF Status Flow

```
DRAFT ──[submit]──> PENDING ──[approve]──> APPROVED ──[po_closed]──> CLOSED
                        │
                        └──[reject]──> REJECTED
```

| Transition         | Trigger | Conditions                                |
| ------------------ | ------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| DRAFT → PENDING    | Submit  | Has at least 1 line item                  |
| PENDING → APPROVED | Approve | User is Supervisor/Admin                  |
| PENDING → REJECTED | Reject  | User is Supervisor/Admin, reason provided |
| APPROVED → CLOSED  | Auto    | When linked PO is closed                  |

### PO Status Flow

```
OPEN ──[close]──> CLOSED
```

| Transition    | Trigger | Conditions                           |
| ------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------ |
| OPEN → CLOSED | Close   | User is Procurement Specialist/Admin |

---

## 5. TypeScript Interfaces

Add to `shared/types/database.ts`:

```typescript
// New Enums
export type PRFType = "URGENT" | "DPA" | "NORMAL";
export type PRFCategory = "MATERIAL" | "CONSUMABLES" | "SPARE_PARTS" | "ASSET" | "SERVICES";

// Updated UserRole
export type UserRole = "OPERATOR" | "SUPERVISOR" | "ADMIN" | "PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST";

// PRFLine Interface
export interface PRFLine {
  id: string;
  prf_id: string;
  item_id: string | null;
  item_description: string;
  cost_code: string | null;
  stock_qty: DecimalValue | null;
  unit: Unit;
  required_qty: DecimalValue;
  estimated_price: DecimalValue;
  line_value: DecimalValue;
  notes: string | null;
}

// PRF Interface (extended)
export interface PRF {
  id: string;
  prf_no: string;
  period_id: string;
  location_id: string;
  project_name: string | null;
  prf_type: PRFType;
  category: PRFCategory;
  expected_delivery_date: Date | string | null;
  is_reimbursable: boolean;
  status: PRFStatus;
  requested_by: string;
  approved_by: string | null;
  request_date: Date | string;
  approval_date: Date | string | null;
  rejection_reason: string | null;
  total_value: DecimalValue;
  contact_person_name: string | null;
  contact_person_phone: string | null;
  receiver_name: string | null;
  receiver_phone: string | null;
  notes: string | null;
  created_at: Date | string;
  updated_at: Date | string;
}

// POLine Interface
export interface POLine {
  id: string;
  po_id: string;
  item_id: string | null;
  item_code: string | null;
  item_description: string;
  quantity: DecimalValue;
  unit: Unit;
  unit_price: DecimalValue;
  discount_percent: DecimalValue;
  total_before_vat: DecimalValue;
  vat_percent: DecimalValue;
  vat_amount: DecimalValue;
  total_after_vat: DecimalValue;
  notes: string | null;
}

// PO Interface (extended)
export interface PO {
  id: string;
  po_no: string;
  prf_id: string | null;
  supplier_id: string;
  quotation_ref: string | null;
  ship_to_location_id: string | null;
  ship_to_contact: string | null;
  ship_to_phone: string | null;
  status: POStatus;
  total_before_discount: DecimalValue;
  total_discount: DecimalValue;
  total_after_discount: DecimalValue;
  total_vat: DecimalValue;
  total_amount: DecimalValue;
  payment_terms: string | null;
  delivery_terms: string | null;
  duration_days: number | null;
  terms_conditions: string | null;
  notes: string | null;
  created_by: string;
  created_at: Date | string;
  updated_at: Date | string;
}

// Supplier Interface (extended)
export interface Supplier {
  id: string;
  code: string;
  name: string;
  contact: string | null;
  emails: string[];
  phone: string | null;
  mobile: string | null;
  vat_reg_no: string | null;
  address: string | null;
  is_active: boolean;
  created_at: Date | string;
}
```

---

## 6. Migration Strategy

### Phase 1: Schema Changes

1. Add new enums (PRFType, PRFCategory)
2. Modify UserRole enum (add PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST)
3. Add PRFLine model
4. Add POLine model
5. Modify Supplier model (add emails, phone, mobile, vat_reg_no, address)
6. Modify PRF model (add new fields)
7. Modify PO model (add new fields)
8. Add relations to User, Location, Item models

### Phase 2: Data Migration

1. No data migration needed (new fields have defaults or are nullable)
2. Existing deliveries with po_id = NULL remain valid (API validates new only)

### Migration Command

```bash
pnpm db:migrate dev --name add_prf_po_workflow
```
