specs/001-prf-po-workflow/quickstart.md, before:

# Quickstart: PRF/PO Workflow

**Feature**: 001-prf-po-workflow
**Date**: 2026-01-19

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- pnpm 8+
- PostgreSQL 15+ (via Supabase)
- Office 365 SMTP credentials for email notifications

## Setup Steps

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
pnpm install
```

New dependencies to add:

```bash
pnpm add nodemailer
pnpm add -D @types/nodemailer
```

### 2. Environment Variables

Add to `.env`:

```env
# Email Service (Office 365 SMTP)
SMTP_USER=your-email@your-domain.com
SMTP_PASSWORD=your-smtp-password
SMTP_HOST=smtp.office365.com
SMTP_PORT=587
EMAIL_FROM=your-email@your-domain.com
```

### 3. Database Migration

```bash
# Generate migration for new schema changes
pnpm db:migrate dev --name add_prf_po_workflow

# Or for prototyping (development only)
pnpm db:push
```

### 4. Run Development Server

```bash
pnpm dev
```

Application available at: http://localhost:3000

---

## Implementation Order

### Phase 1: Database & Types (Foundation)

1. Update `prisma/schema.prisma` with new models and enums
2. Run database migration
3. Update `shared/types/database.ts` with new TypeScript interfaces

### Phase 2: Backend API

4. Create `server/utils/email.ts` - Email notification service
5. Create PRF API endpoints (`server/api/prfs/`)
6. Create PO API endpoints (`server/api/pos/`)
7. Update Supplier API endpoints with email support

### Phase 3: Composables & Permissions

8. Update `app/composables/usePermissions.ts` - Add PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST role
9. Create `app/composables/usePRFs.ts` - PRF CRUD operations
10. Create `app/composables/usePOs.ts` - PO CRUD operations

### Phase 4: Frontend Components

11. Create status badge components
12. Create line item table components (PRF and PO)
13. Create form components (PRF and PO)
14. Create approval actions component

### Phase 5: Pages

15. Create Orders index page with tabs
16. Create PRF create/detail pages
17. Create PO create/detail pages
18. Update Supplier pages with email fields
19. Update Delivery create page with mandatory PO selection

### Phase 6: Navigation & Integration

20. Update navigation for Orders menu item
21. Update navigation for PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST role restrictions

---

## Key Files Reference

### Schema Changes

```
prisma/schema.prisma
├── UserRole enum (add PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST)
├── PRFType enum (new)
├── PRFCategory enum (new)
├── PRFStatus enum (add CLOSED)
├── Supplier model (add emails, phone, mobile, vat_reg_no, address)
├── PRF model (add new fields)
├── PRFLine model (new)
├── PO model (add new fields)
└── POLine model (new)
```

### API Routes

```
server/api/
├── prfs/
│   ├── index.get.ts
│   ├── index.post.ts
│   ├── [id].get.ts
│   ├── [id].patch.ts
│   ├── [id].delete.ts
│   └── [id]/
│       ├── submit.patch.ts
│       ├── approve.patch.ts
│       ├── reject.patch.ts
│       └── clone.post.ts
├── pos/
│   ├── index.get.ts
│   ├── index.post.ts
│   ├── open.get.ts
│   ├── [id].get.ts
│   ├── [id].patch.ts
│   └── [id]/
│       ├── close.patch.ts
│       └── resend-email.post.ts
└── suppliers/
    └── [id].patch.ts (modify)
```

### Components

```
app/components/orders/
├── PRFForm.vue
├── POForm.vue
├── PRFLineItemsTable.vue
├── POLineItemsTable.vue
├── PRFStatusBadge.vue
├── POStatusBadge.vue
├── PRFApprovalActions.vue
└── StockLevelsTable.vue
```

### Pages

```
app/pages/orders/
├── index.vue
├── prfs/
│   ├── create.vue
│   └── [id].vue
└── pos/
    ├── create.vue
    └── [id].vue
```

---

## Testing Checklist

### PRF Workflow

- [ ] Create PRF as Operator
- [ ] Add/edit/remove line items
- [ ] Submit PRF for approval
- [ ] Approve PRF as Supervisor
- [ ] Verify email sent to PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST users
- [ ] Reject PRF with reason as Supervisor
- [ ] Clone rejected PRF

### PO Workflow

- [ ] Create PO from approved PRF as Procurement Specialist
- [ ] Verify VAT calculations (15%)
- [ ] Verify email sent to supplier
- [ ] Edit open PO (add/remove lines)
- [ ] Close PO
- [ ] Verify linked PRF marked as CLOSED

### Delivery Integration

- [ ] Create delivery - PO selection is mandatory
- [ ] Verify only OPEN POs appear in dropdown
- [ ] Verify supplier auto-populated from PO

### Role Permissions

- [ ] PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST sees only: Dashboard, Orders, Deliveries (limited)
- [ ] PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST cannot access: Master Data, Issues, Transfers, etc.
- [ ] OPERATOR can create PRF but not PO
- [ ] SUPERVISOR can approve/reject PRF

---

## Common Commands

```bash
# Development
pnpm dev              # Start dev server
pnpm typecheck        # Type checking
pnpm lint             # Linting
pnpm format           # Format code

# Database
pnpm db:push          # Push schema (dev only)
pnpm db:migrate dev   # Create migration
pnpm db:studio        # Open Prisma Studio

# Testing
pnpm test             # Run tests
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Email Not Sending

1. Check `SMTP_USER` and `SMTP_PASSWORD` in `.env`
2. Verify `EMAIL_FROM` matches your SMTP_USER or an authorized alias
3. Ensure SMTP_HOST is `smtp.office365.com` and SMTP_PORT is `587`
4. Check console for email service logs
5. If MFA is enabled on O365, create an App Password instead of using your regular password
6. Supplier must have at least one email in `emails` array

### PRF/PO Number Conflicts

- Numbers are auto-generated sequentially
- If conflicts occur, check for concurrent requests
- Consider adding database-level sequence in production

### Permission Denied Errors

1. Verify user role in database
2. Check `usePermissions.ts` for role checks
3. Verify API middleware validates role correctly

### VAT Calculation Mismatch

- All calculations use Decimal with 2-4 decimal places
- Frontend should match backend calculation logic
- Use the calculation formulas from `research.md`

Commit message:

limit PO access to procurement specialists and disable supplier email on PO creation

specs/001-prf-po-workflow/quickstart.md, after:

# Quickstart: PRF/PO Workflow

**Feature**: 001-prf-po-workflow
**Date**: 2026-01-19

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- pnpm 8+
- PostgreSQL 15+ (via Supabase)
- Office 365 SMTP credentials for email notifications

## Setup Steps

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
pnpm install
```

New dependencies to add:

```bash
pnpm add nodemailer
pnpm add -D @types/nodemailer
```

### 2. Environment Variables

Add to `.env`:

```env
# Email Service (Office 365 SMTP)
SMTP_USER=your-email@your-domain.com
SMTP_PASSWORD=your-smtp-password
SMTP_HOST=smtp.office365.com
SMTP_PORT=587
EMAIL_FROM=your-email@your-domain.com
```

### 3. Database Migration

```bash
# Generate migration for new schema changes
pnpm db:migrate dev --name add_prf_po_workflow

# Or for prototyping (development only)
pnpm db:push
```

### 4. Run Development Server

```bash
pnpm dev
```

Application available at: http://localhost:3000

---

## Implementation Order

### Phase 1: Database & Types (Foundation)

1. Update `prisma/schema.prisma` with new models and enums
2. Run database migration
3. Update `shared/types/database.ts` with new TypeScript interfaces

### Phase 2: Backend API

4. Create `server/utils/email.ts` - Email notification service
5. Create PRF API endpoints (`server/api/prfs/`)
6. Create PO API endpoints (`server/api/pos/`)
7. Update Supplier API endpoints with email support

### Phase 3: Composables & Permissions

8. Update `app/composables/usePermissions.ts` - Add PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST role
9. Create `app/composables/usePRFs.ts` - PRF CRUD operations
10. Create `app/composables/usePOs.ts` - PO CRUD operations

### Phase 4: Frontend Components

11. Create status badge components
12. Create line item table components (PRF and PO)
13. Create form components (PRF and PO)
14. Create approval actions component

### Phase 5: Pages

15. Create Orders index page with tabs
16. Create PRF create/detail pages
17. Create PO create/detail pages
18. Update Supplier pages with email fields
19. Update Delivery create page with mandatory PO selection

### Phase 6: Navigation & Integration

20. Update navigation for Orders menu item
21. Update navigation for PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST role restrictions

---

## Key Files Reference

### Schema Changes

```
prisma/schema.prisma
├── UserRole enum (add PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST)
├── PRFType enum (new)
├── PRFCategory enum (new)
├── PRFStatus enum (add CLOSED)
├── Supplier model (add emails, phone, mobile, vat_reg_no, address)
├── PRF model (add new fields)
├── PRFLine model (new)
├── PO model (add new fields)
└── POLine model (new)
```

### API Routes

```
server/api/
├── prfs/
│   ├── index.get.ts
│   ├── index.post.ts
│   ├── [id].get.ts
│   ├── [id].patch.ts
│   ├── [id].delete.ts
│   └── [id]/
│       ├── submit.patch.ts
│       ├── approve.patch.ts
│       ├── reject.patch.ts
│       └── clone.post.ts
├── pos/
│   ├── index.get.ts
│   ├── index.post.ts
│   ├── open.get.ts
│   ├── [id].get.ts
│   ├── [id].patch.ts
│   └── [id]/
│       ├── close.patch.ts
│       └── resend-email.post.ts
└── suppliers/
    └── [id].patch.ts (modify)
```

### Components

```
app/components/orders/
├── PRFForm.vue
├── POForm.vue
├── PRFLineItemsTable.vue
├── POLineItemsTable.vue
├── PRFStatusBadge.vue
├── POStatusBadge.vue
├── PRFApprovalActions.vue
└── StockLevelsTable.vue
```

### Pages

```
app/pages/orders/
├── index.vue
├── prfs/
│   ├── create.vue
│   └── [id].vue
└── pos/
    ├── create.vue
    └── [id].vue
```

---

## Testing Checklist

### PRF Workflow

- [ ] Create PRF as Operator
- [ ] Add/edit/remove line items
- [ ] Submit PRF for approval
- [ ] Approve PRF as Supervisor
- [ ] Verify email sent to PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST users
- [ ] Reject PRF with reason as Supervisor
- [ ] Clone rejected PRF

### PO Workflow

- [ ] Create PO from approved PRF as Procurement Specialist (only PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST role can create POs)
- [ ] Verify VAT calculations (15%)
- [ ] Verify no email is sent to supplier on PO creation
- [ ] Edit open PO (add/remove lines)
- [ ] Close PO
- [ ] Verify linked PRF marked as CLOSED

### Delivery Integration

- [ ] Create delivery - PO selection is mandatory
- [ ] Verify only OPEN POs appear in dropdown
- [ ] Verify supplier auto-populated from PO

### Role Permissions

- [ ] PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST sees only: Dashboard, Orders, Deliveries (limited)
- [ ] PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST cannot access: Master Data, Issues, Transfers, etc.
- [ ] PROCUREMENT_SPECIALIST is the ONLY role that can create/edit/close POs
- [ ] OPERATOR can create PRF but not PO
- [ ] SUPERVISOR can approve/reject PRF
- [ ] ADMIN can view POs but cannot create/edit/close them

---

## Common Commands

```bash
# Development
pnpm dev              # Start dev server
pnpm typecheck        # Type checking
pnpm lint             # Linting
pnpm format           # Format code

# Database
pnpm db:push          # Push schema (dev only)
pnpm db:migrate dev   # Create migration
pnpm db:studio        # Open Prisma Studio

# Testing
pnpm test             # Run tests
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Email Not Sending

1. Check `SMTP_USER` and `SMTP_PASSWORD` in `.env`
2. Verify `EMAIL_FROM` matches your SMTP_USER or an authorized alias
3. Ensure SMTP_HOST is `smtp.office365.com` and SMTP_PORT is `587`
4. Check console for email service logs
5. If MFA is enabled on O365, create an App Password instead of using your regular password
6. Supplier must have at least one email in `emails` array

### PRF/PO Number Conflicts

- Numbers are auto-generated sequentially
- If conflicts occur, check for concurrent requests
- Consider adding database-level sequence in production

### Permission Denied Errors

1. Verify user role in database
2. Check `usePermissions.ts` for role checks
3. Verify API middleware validates role correctly

### VAT Calculation Mismatch

- All calculations use Decimal with 2-4 decimal places
- Frontend should match backend calculation logic
- Use the calculation formulas from `research.md`
